Notes on Genre (inspired by Wikipedia discussion of Witch House)

posted to the discussion page of the wikipedia article "witch house"
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Witch_house_(music_genre)
as "An anonymous opinion piece based on what I felt reading this discussion page"
on 9.29.11

when i read music blogs or aggregates, download and enjoy free music from said websites, read about trend or genre, regardless of commercial practice or difference of opinion, I hear cultural theory, medium-as-practice, active and healthy creativity, overall positivity and i feel hopeful that the world isn't as terrible as it seems.

when i read or listen to people that hate music blogs and their practices, hate the opinions of the writers, hate conflicting definitions, hate profit and profit potential, hate marketing, hate trends, hate genres, hate peoples opinions, I hear immaturity and absolute blinding negativity, and I begin to realize the extent to which humanity is able to shut itself down.

this negativity has a rippling effect that extends through the entire formation of our culture going all the way to artists and writers themselves.  if we can only accept some kind of official version of reality and aren't able to talk about things by giving them labels, making parallels, accepting that trends happen and allowing ourselves to talk about them, allowing people to give things names and definitions, we will slowly lose track of our cognitive abilities and the tiny shreds of culture we have left will break apart.  we have to be able to think in spurts and fragments, think on the fly, think on our way to the bus stop and think without pretense.

someday we'll stop putting apostrophes around things and stop saying the things we've put in the apostrophes in the first place.  so fuck the apostrophes, make up your own words.  think of what a radialite could be and call someone a radialite.  or call a group of abstract concepts radialistic.  tell someone their favorite tv show sucks and why instead of just saying you hate it.  get famous and make ungodly sums of money for you and all your friends.  enact a conspiracy.  if someone calls you a name, call them a name back, and then call yourself something, and then call something something else.  talk about what bothers you.  give yourself dogmas.  make your own religion.  be irrational.  you've never been smarter or better at making decisions or better at making art or writing or working a ratchet than you are at this moment, so don't wrap yourself up in guilt or indecision or ambiguity.

